Add to My Favorites (opens a new window)
Print (opens a new window)
Help (opens a new window)
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Academic Regulations

Credit System
Grading System
Classwork
Graduation Requirements
Academic Records
	
Undergraduate Academic Integrity
Academic Grievance Policy
Academic Misconduct by Former Students
Revocation of Academic Degrees

Proper discharge of all duties is required at Clemson University, and a student’s first duty is his/her scholastic work. All students should be thoroughly acquainted with these basic requirements.

Credit System

The semester hour is the basis of all credits. Generally, one recitation hour or two-three laboratory hours a week for a semester constitute a semester hour. Thus, in HIST 1930 - Modern World History 3(3), as this subject is listed in the Courses of Instruction section of this catalog, the student takes three semester hours. When the course is completed satisfactorily, three credit hours are entered on the student’s record. The notation “3(3)” means that the course carries three credits and has three clock hours of class time per week. CH 1010 - General Chemistry 4(3) carries four semester hours, and has three clock hours of class time per week. However, CH 1010 has a required lab course associated with it (CH 1011), which carries no additional credit, but has three clock hours associated with it. CH 1011 would therefore read 0(3), and the three clock hours associated with CH 1011 account for the fourth credit CH 1010 carries.

Credit Load

Entering freshmen are restricted to the curriculum requirements of their majors. Credit loads for all other undergraduate students are determined in consultation with the student’s academic advisor, who will approve a credit load deemed in the best interest of the student based on such factors as course requirements, grade-point average, participation in other activities, and expected date of graduation.

For fall, spring and summer terms, 19 is the maximum number of hours in which a student may enroll during early registration (16 hours is the maximum credit load for those on probation). On the day before classes begin for a term, the maximum number of hours for all students, except those on probation, is automatically raised to 21 credits. Permission of a student’s academic advisor is required for all registration in more than 21 hours, or 16 hours for those on probation.

Students are not permitted to enroll in courses with overlapping class times.

Full-Time Enrollment

In fall and spring semesters, enrollment in 12 or more credit hours is considered full time, and combined enrollment in 12 or more hours in summer terms is considered full time for the summer. Enrollment in fewer than 12 credit hours is part time.

Advanced Placement

In addition to earning credit by the usual method involving classroom attendance, a student may receive credit toward his/her degree by completing a course successfully by examination only. Freshmen interested in exempting some elementary courses in this manner should participate in the College Board Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate program and have the results of these tests sent to Clemson.

Certain departments will also grant credit for successful completion of College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) subject examinations, which are administered by the College Board.

Credit by Examination or Review

Enrolled students may earn credit by means of a special review without the necessity of class attendance subject to the following requirements:

The applicant must present evidence that he/she has received training or taken work which is approximately equivalent to that given in the course at Clemson for which a review is requested.
The applicant must not have previously failed or audited the course at Clemson.
The applicant must apply in writing for the review; the request must be approved by the instructor, chair of the department in which the course is taught, and the Enrolled Student Services Office. Application forms are available in the Enrolled Student Services Office, and must be requested by the department awarding credit.

The review may include, but is not limited to, a written or oral examination. Credit (CR) will be awarded for acceptable work in lieu of letter grades in recognition of college-level achievement as determined by College Board Advanced Placement Examination, International Baccalaureate Program, College-Level Examination Program subject examination, institutional special examinations, and similar instruments.

Transfer Credit

Coursework completed with a grade of C or better by currently enrolled Clemson students at other regionally accredited institutions, including correspondence courses, telecourses, online courses, and exempted courses, will be evaluated for transfer in terms of equivalent courses included in the Clemson curriculum of the student’s choice. This does not guarantee that all courses taken at other institutions will be accepted for transfer. The acceptability of each course or exemption will be based on an evaluation by the Office of Admissions. Students should obtain approval from the academic advisor for a course prior to enrolling in the course. By obtaining advance approval, the student is assured to receive proper credit at Clemson upon satisfactory completion of the course. Information and forms relative to this approval may be obtained on the forms section of the Registrar’s website. Coursework earned at different institutions will not be joined to equate with one Clemson course. No course taken at a nonbaccalaureate-degree granting institution may be used as an equivalent or substitute for any 3000- or 4000-level Clemson course. Relative to academic eligibility, graduation, and transcripts, only grades earned at Clemson are used in computing the student’s grade-point average. Grades earned in qualifying (i.e., non-remedial) transfer courses will be used in calculating the student’s grade-point average for South Carolina LIFE Scholarship awards. Non-remedial college classes completed while in high school are also included in this calculation.

Effective June 1, 2022, students who graduate with an Associate of Arts or Associate of Science degree from a state of South Carolina public two-year institution of higher education are guaranteed to receive a minimum of 60 transfer credit hours and junior class standing upon enrolling at Clemson University. All degree requirements, course prerequisites, minimum grades and credit requirements still apply. (South Carolina proviso 117.152)

Learning experiences including, but not limited to, non-collegiate sponsored instruction, work-related experiences, etc., will not be evaluated for transfer; however, enrolled students may request credit by examination or review for any non-transferable learning experience. For additional information, see Credit by Examination or Review above.

Learning Experiences

All “for credit” learning experiences conducted with organizations other than accredited higher education institutions must be regularly supervised by appropriate members of the Clemson University faculty or staff. The student must be enrolled at the time the credit is generated, and the level of credit (grade) is the responsibility of the faculty member(s) in the discipline from which the grade originates.

External Education Experiences

In all “for credit” external educational programs that Clemson University may have with professional, vocational, technical, clinical, and foreign study, the agreements are to be agreed to through signature of the provost and the president. In such cases, learning experiences for which credit is awarded must be under the ultimate control and supervision of Clemson University.

Grading System

The grading system is as follows:

A-Excellent indicates work of a very high character, the highest grade given.

B-Good indicates work that is definitely above average, though not of the highest quality.

C-Fair indicates work of average or medium character.

D-Pass indicates work below average and unsatisfactory, the lowest passing grade.

F-Failed indicates that the student knows so little of the subject that it must be repeated in order that credit can be received.

I-Incomplete indicates that a relatively small part of the semester’s work remains undone. Grade I is not given a student who made a grade F on his/her daily work. The incomplete grade is calculated as an F in the student’s grade-point average until the work is made up and a final grade is assigned. Instructors and students will resolve the Incomplete grade as soon as possible, but not to exceed thirty days from the first day of classes in the next scheduled session (excluding summer sessions and regardless of the student’s enrollment status). Students will contact instructors in a timely manner so that instructors can provide a reasonable opportunity to complete remaining work. Normally, only one extension for each I may be granted, and this under unusual circumstances. The extension must be submitted by the instructor of the course and will indicate the time limit. (Students under this policy are prohibited from removing the I by repeating the course.) A letter grade of I converts to F unless the incomplete is removed within the time specified.

W-Withdrew indicates that the student withdrew from the course or was withdrawn by the instructor after the first two weeks of classwork and prior to the last five weeks of classes, not including the examination period. Proportionate time periods apply during summer and other shortened sessions. For financial aid purposes, enrollment is defined and satisfactory academic progress levels are established as of midnight on the last day to drop without a W grade. Withdrawal can negatively impact financial aid eligibility if a student does not complete a sufficient number of hours. Details are available at www.clemson.edu/finaid.

P-Pass or NP-No Pass indicate a student has either passed or not passed a course approved to be taken as Pass/No Pass only. Students are not permitted to optionally take a letter-graded course as Pass/No Pass.

Grade-Point Average

In calculating a student’s grade-point average, the total number of quality points accumulated by the student is divided by the total number of GPA hours at Clemson during the semester, session, or other period for which the grade-point average is calculated. For each credit hour, the student receives quality points as follows: A-4, B-3, C-2, D-1. No quality points are assigned for grades F, I, P, NP or W.

Dropping Classwork

A subject dropped after the first two weeks of class-work and prior to the last five weeks during the fall and spring semesters is recorded as W-Withdrew. Proportionate time periods apply during summer sessions and other shortened sessions.

Mid-Term Evaluation

Once, near mid-term, but no later than ten days before the last day students can drop courses without receiving final grades, instructors of every undergraduate course shall make available for each student (a) that student’s numerical course grade or (b) that student’s letter ranking to date in that course (A-F or P/NP). More frequent feedback is strongly encouraged.

Both student and instructor are to recognize that this feedback reflects the student’s performance up to that point in time, and as such, that student’s final course grade may change based upon subsequent coursework performance(s).

The policy includes all undergraduate courses and applies to all terms, including summer sessions.

Final Examinations

The standing of a student in his/her work at the end of a semester is based upon daily class work, tests or other work, and final examinations. Faculty members may excuse from final examinations all students having the grade of A on the coursework prior to the final examination. For all other students, examinations are required in all subjects at the end of each semester, except in courses in which final examinations are not deemed necessary as approved by the department faculty.

Final examinations must be given or due on the dates and at the times designated in the final examination schedule, except in laboratory and one-credit-hour courses for which the final exam will be given at the last class meeting.

All courses (including online courses) that specify a standard day of the week and standard meeting time are assigned a final exam date and time during exam week. All courses in regular terms that do not specify a standard day of the week and standard meeting time are not assigned a final exam date and time, and the final exam must be given during examination week at a date and time determined by the instructor. This date and time must be stipulated in the syllabus.

Grade Reports

Students may access their end-of-term grades online.

Academic Eligibility Policy

All students are expected to study and perform to the best of their abilities. The academic eligibility standards listed below represent minimum levels to remain enrolled at the University. A student who fails to meet these standards is not making satisfactory academic progress and should seek additional assistance from an academic advisor, the Academic Recovery Program, or other appropriate University resources.

Academic Eligibility Definitions

The following terms identify levels of academic difficulty pertinent to a student’s academic eligibility.

Academic Alert: A student who earns a semester grade-point average below 1.5, regardless of cumulative grade-point average, is placed on academic alert. No notation concerning academic alert will appear on the student’s permanent record.

Academic Probation: A student who fails to maintain a cumulative grade-point average of 2.0 or higher is placed on academic probation. No notation concerning probation will appear on the student’s permanent record. A student on academic probation may enroll in a maximum of 16 credit hours, unless permission for a higher course load is granted by the academic advisor. Students on academic probation are expected to participate in the Success Matters academic recovery program.

Academic Suspension: A suspended student is ineligible to enroll in classes for the fall or spring semester immediately following the suspension notification. Suspension is for one semester only, and the student is eligible to reenroll the following semester.

Academic Dismissal: A student who enrolls after a suspension is subject to dismissal at the end of the next semester in which he/she does not meet the academic eligibility criteria listed below. Readmission after dismissal is by appeal only after at least one calendar year has elapsed. A dismissed student who is readmitted and again fails to meet academic eligibility standards will be permanently dismissed. Permanent dismissal may not be appealed, and a student permanently dismissed may not apply for Academic Renewal.

A student on academic probation for two consecutively enrolled semesters is evaluated to determine academic eligibility. Eligibility for continued enrollment is evaluated at the end of each semester unless otherwise indicated in this policy. Students with only one complete semester will not be evaluated.

The evaluation for academic eligibility is separate from the evaluation for satisfactory academic progress required for Student Financial Aid. Further information on satisfactory academic progress for financial aid purposes is available in the Financial Information section of this catalog and at www.clemson.edu/finaid.

Academic Eligibility Standards

A student on academic probation (cumulative grade-point average below 2.0) will remain academically eligible if one of the following conditions is met.

The student passes at least 12 graded credit hours and earns a 2.4 or higher semester grade-point average. Duplicate credits do not count as credits passed unless otherwise required to meet an alternative departmental standard.
The student achieves the Minimum Cumulative Grade-Point Average (MCGPA) listed in the chart below.
The student achieves a cumulative grade-point average of 2.0 or higher.

Total Attempted Hours*

	

MCGPA

	

 

 

	

16-29

	

 

	

1.75

	

 

 

	

30-59

	

 

	

1.85

	

 

 

	

60-89

	

 

	

1.95

	

 

 

	

90+

	

 

	

2.00

	

 

 

*Total Attempted Hours includes all credit hours attempted at Clemson, plus any advanced standing received from transfer credits and credits based on approved examination programs. Only grade points earned at Clemson are used to calculate the MCGPA.

Academic Eligibility Evaluation

Academic eligibility criteria are different for students who have completed fewer than three semesters at Clemson, students who have completed at least three semesters, students who have been suspended, and students returning on appeal, as described below. If a student withdraws for one or more semesters, those semesters are not counted as eligible semesters. Conditions of academic eligibility standards are described in the previous section.

A new student will be evaluated at the end of his/her second regular (fall or spring) semester. If the student has two consecutive semesters on academic probation and is not on Academic Alert, he/she is eligible to enroll in the subsequent semester, but must meet academic eligibility standards at the end of the subsequent semester to avoid suspension. This term of suspension is not appealable. Students on Academic Alert in the second consecutive semester of probation will be suspended for the subsequent regular (fall or spring) semester. A student subject to suspension at the end of spring semester may enroll in summer sessions and will avoid suspension if he/she meets academic eligibility standards.
After a student has completed three regular (fall and spring) semesters, he/she will be evaluated at the end of each fall and spring semester. If the student has two consecutive semesters on academic probation and fails to meet academic eligibility standards, he/she will be suspended for the next regular (fall or spring) semester. A student subject to suspension at the end of spring semester may enroll in summer sessions and will avoid suspension if he/she meets academic eligibility standards.
A student enrolled after being suspended is evaluated at the end of each fall and spring semester until a cumulative grade-point average of 2.0 or higher is achieved. A previously suspended student on academic probation who fails to meet academic eligibility standards will be dismissed at the end of the following fall or spring term. Dismissed students are permitted to re-enroll only as a result of a successful appeal after at least one calendar year has elapsed.
A student permitted to reenroll due to a successful appeal of suspension or dismissal is evaluated at the end of each fall and spring semester until a cumulative grade-point average of 2.0 or higher is achieved. A student who fails to meet academic eligibility standards will be suspended or dismissed, according to his/her academic situation.
Appealing Suspension or Dismissal

In the event a student subject to suspension or dismissal is unable to achieve one of the above outcomes as a result of extenuating circumstances, the student may file a written appeal with the Appeals Committee on Academic Eligibility. If this appeal is denied, the student may file subsequent appeals for readmission after any subsequent semester.

The Appeals Committee on Academic Eligibility meets approximately one week after final examinations in May and August. Only appeals for return from dismissal and academic renewal will be reviewed at the May meeting. The committee meets in early January to read the appeals of students wishing to enroll for the spring semester. Students should contact the Office of Undergraduate Studies for further information on the appeals process. Appeals will be granted only in the most exceptional cases and may require the student to adhere to additional criteria in order to remain enrolled at the University.

Grade Protests

A student wishing to protest a final course grade must first try to resolve any disagreement with the instructor. If unable to reach a resolution, the student may follow the procedures listed under Academic Grievance Policy. Grievances must be filed within the first 30 calendar days (exclusive of summer vacation) of the term following that in which the student alleges to have been aggrieved.

Repeating Courses Passed

A student may repeat a course passed with a grade lower than B. Repeating a course graded D or C does not erase the original D or C grade. If a student elects to apply Academic Forgiveness to a course graded D, the Academic Forgiveness Policy below will apply. Otherwise, both grades appear on the record and are computed in the cumulative grade-point average. A course graded C cannot be forgiven. Credit for the same course will be counted only once toward the number of hours required for graduation. For academic eligibility purposes, duplicate credits do not count as credits passed. For financial aid purposes, duplicate credits do not count as credits completed for satisfactory progress. If a student repeats a course passed with grade of B or better, the credits and grade points earned in the repeat attempt will be removed from the cumulative summary.

Repeating Courses Failed

A student who has failed a course cannot receive credit for that course until it has been satisfactorily repeated hour for hour in a class; except that in the case of co-related laboratory work, the number of hours to be taken shall be determined by the instructor.

Where separate grades for class and laboratory work are given, that part of the subject shall be repeated in which the failure occurs. Successfully repeating a course previously graded F does not erase the original F grade from the student’s record. If a student elects to apply Academic Forgiveness to a failed course, the Academic Forgiveness Policy below will apply. Otherwise, both grades appear on the record and are computed in the cumulative grade-point average.

Academic Forgiveness Policy (*Revised 2019)

The Academic Forgiveness Policy (AFP) allows an enrolled student seeking a Clemson University degree, with first term of enrollment fall 2013 through spring 2019 to eliminate from the GPA calculation up to three courses in which a D or F was earned. Students with first term of enrollment summer 2019 or after can eliminate a maximum of two courses. Further information on specific questions related to the use of Academic Forgiveness can be found at https://www.clemson.edu/registrar/student-menu/student-records/academic-forgiveness.html.

Academic Forgiveness can improve a student’s GPA while reducing their earned credit hours, so students must be aware of all consequences before requesting that a grade be forgiven. Students are encouraged to speak with the Office of Student Financial Aid if they have questions about how Academic Forgiveness may affect their scholarship eligibility. If students are seeking to regain a scholarship for an upcoming academic year, they must invoke the AFP before the first day of class of the fall semester. For financial aid purposes, courses repeated under this policy resulting in duplicate credit do not count for satisfactory academic progress.

The following conditions apply:

The AFP shall apply only to courses taken at Clemson University.
The AFP may not be applied to a course taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.
Courses taken prior to fall semester 2003 may not be considered for academic forgiveness.
Students with a first term of enrollment beginning summer 2019 may apply academic forgiveness to a particular course only once.
The AFP may not be applied to any course in which the student was previously found in violation of the academic integrity policy.
Once applied, academic forgiveness cannot be reversed.
D or F grades in required courses may be eliminated from the GPA before the course is repeated.
A forgiven course cannot be used to satisfy any prerequisite.
Course substitutions are not permitted in situations where Academic Forgiveness has been previously applied.
Any course used to meet a graduation requirement must be repeated satisfactorily at Clemson University. Both grades will remain on the transcript, degree progress report and other official documents.
Students must contact their academic advisor to discuss academic forgiveness prior to submitting the request for approval.
Students cannot receive transfer credit for the same course that received academic forgiveness.

Students may not invoke the AFP after they have graduated. After graduation, students may repeat coursework, but both grades will be calculated in the grade-point average.

*After spring term 2022, all students will follow the revised Academic Forgiveness Policy, regardless of their first term of enrollment. Applicable AFP requests for the three-course version of this policy will be accepted for review no later than August 16, 2022. There will be no exceptions to this deadline.

Classwork
Academic Advising

Each student is assigned an academic advisor in his/her major area. It is the responsibility of the student to consult with his/her advisor during registration. The advisor will assist the student in scheduling courses so as to fulfill the requirements of the degree program; nevertheless, it is the responsibility of the student to fulfill the relevant requirements of the degree. For more information, visit http://www.clemson.edu/academics/advising/.

Course Prerequisites

Prerequisites for each course are enumerated in the Courses of Instruction section of this catalog. In addition to these requirements, colleges and departments may also establish other standards as conditions for enrollment. It is the student’s responsibility to refer to individual college and curricular information for specific standards.

Fulfilling Course Prerequisites for Minor Requirements

A number of courses in the minors have prerequisite courses. Students should select a minor and take any prerequisite courses as early as possible in their academic careers. Please consult individual course listings for prerequisites.

Course Substitutions

A student may request substitution of a course, whether Clemson credits or transfer credits, for a curriculum requirement in the major, the minor, or General Education. Course substitutions will be applied toward degree requirements only after approval by all the appropriate academic approvers. Students should initiate the request using the Student Records tab in iROAR.

All requests for course/requirement substitutions must be submitted and approved as early as possible and prior to the start of the student’s final semester at Clemson University (i.e., the graduation semester).

If the student has changed academic programs, substitutions previously applied become invalid and unenforced. A re-evaluation of the substitution with an advisor and the resubmission of a substitution form for approval may be required.

Double-Counting of Coursework

Courses that meet General Education requirements may double-count with course requirements in minors, undergraduate certificates, majors, concentrations, or emphasis areas. However, General Education courses only count for a single General Education requirement, except for special combinations as defined in the General Education section.

Double-counting may be allowed between minors, undergraduate certificates, majors, concentrations, or emphasis areas, as determined by faculty of the academic unit that contains the major. Regardless of whether a minor, undergraduate certificate, concentration, or emphasis area is required, courses may not be used to fulfill a second minor, undergraduate certificate, concentration, or emphasis area. Courses that are cross-referenced with a course in the major’s subject code and taken under the alternate subject code will be treated the same as the course in the major’s subject code.

No multiple-counting beyond the specified double-counting as described above is allowed (no triple- or higher counting). Even though a course may satisfy two requirements, the credits will only count once toward total hours.

Modern Language Requirement

A number of Clemson University degree programs require the completion of a modern language through a specific course level. Modern languages taught at Clemson University or accepted for transfer credit include American Sign Language, Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish. While many degree programs accept any of these modern languages for the requirement, certain programs may have specific modern language requirements. Students should consult their program’s curriculum map for details. Bachelor of Arts degree programs require completion of a minor and four semesters (through 2020) of a modern foreign language.

Attendance Policy

The academic resources of Clemson University are provided for the intellectual growth and development of students. Class attendance is critical to the educational process; therefore, students should attend scheduled courses regularly if they are to attain their academic goals.

In the event of an emergency, the student should make direct contact with the course instructor, preferably before a class or an exam takes place. Students should speak with their course instructors regarding any scheduled absence as soon as possible and develop a plan for any make-up work. It is the student’s responsibility to secure documentation of emergencies, if required. A student with an excessive number of absences may be withdrawn at the discretion of the course instructor.

Course instructors must implement fair grading procedures and provide an opportunity to make up missed assignments and examinations that does not unfairly penalize the student when an excused absence is accepted. Such make-up work shall be at the same level of difficulty with the missed assignment or examination. Course instructors shall hold all students with excused absences to the same standard for making up missed assignments or examinations. While course instructors should seek to make reasonable accommodation for a student involved in University-sponsored activities, students should understand that not every course can accommodate absences and that absences do not lessen the need to meet all course objectives.

Absence from class is detrimental to the learning process, so course instructors may use reasonable academic penalties which reflect the importance of work missed because of unexcused absences. Course instructors who penalize students for unexcused absences must specify attendance requirements as related to grading in the course syllabus and must keep accurate attendance records. Course instructors are obligated to honor exceptions to the university attendance policy for students covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act, as verified through paperwork issued by Student Disability Services.

Enrollment

Only students who are officially registered and have paid appropriate fees may attend classes. Students have the responsibility to insure that drop/add transactions are completed in a timely manner. Registered students who cease attending class will be assigned a failing grade.

All students are required to attend the first scheduled day of classes and labs. Students who cannot attend the first class are responsible for contacting the instructor to indicate their intent to remain in that class. If a student does not attend the first class meeting or contact the course instructor by the second meeting or the last day to add, whichever comes first, the course instructor has the option of dropping that student from the roll. Students must not assume that course instructors are obligated to drop them if they fail to attend the first few days of class.

Anticipated Absences

Students should use the Notification of Absence module in Canvas, or other reasonable means, to notify the course instructor of a future absence from class. This communication is only for information and does not verify the student’s reason for absence or impact the course instructor’s evaluation of the student’s academic work. The student must make personal contact with the course instructor as soon as possible.

If a student realizes in the first two weeks of classes that an anticipated number of absences will exceed the number of excused absences permitted in the course, the student should discuss the situation with the course instructor, the student’s advisor, and/or the academic Associate Dean in the college in which the student is enrolled. A suitable resolution should be reached before the end of the second week of the semester.

Students are encouraged to inform course instructors of known conflicts as soon as possible, but no later than one week before the date of any assignment or exam.

Unanticipated Absences

Students should use the Notification of Absence module in Canvas to notify the course instructor. This communication is only for information and does not verify the student’s reason for absence or impact the course instructor’s evaluation of the student’s academic work. If the student is unable to contact course instructors, the student (or representative) should contact the Office of the Dean of Students, who will notify the course instructors of the circumstances, providing a liaison in cases limited by medical confidentiality.

Excused Absences

A student may be excused from attending class in cases of emergency or other compelling reasons deemed appropriate by the course instructor. Excuses for emergency absences must be reported to the course instructor as soon as possible (for example, through e-mail), but not more than one week after the return to class. Given proper and timely documentation, the instructor must either exempt the student from missed assignments or provide an opportunity to earn equivalent credit.

If the student is not satisfied by the execution of this policy by a course instructor, they are encouraged to contact the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Studies for further review. In certain cases, the Dean of Undergraduate Studies (or designee) may provide a letter verifying the student’s absence as excused. Attempts to abuse this system are a violation of the student code of conduct and could result in significant punishment (see section B: Sanctions).

Course instructors are expected to excuse absences for reasons including:

A medical complication (pregnancy/childbirth-related, physical injury, illness, etc.) too severe or contagious for the student to attend class, when certified by an attending physician. Healthcare providers at Redfern Health Center do not provide written excuses; however, students should retain paperwork of medical visits affirming date and time. Whenever possible, students should visit Redfern as outpatients without missing class. An absence for a non-acute medical service does not constitute an excused absence. Course instructors may, at their discretion, require documentation of medical absences.
Death of an immediate family member (spouse, parent or legal guardian, child, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling, including a corresponding in-law or step-relative). Students must be excused for absences from classes for at least five (5) consecutive business days.
Serious illness or emergency in a student’s immediate family (course instructors may require documentation).
Participation in authorized University-sponsored activities, not to include practice for the activities. Course instructors may require documentation from the course instructors or staff advisor of the sponsored University group.
Religious observances and practices which prevent the student from being present during a class period (prior consultation with the instructor is necessary).
Participation in court-imposed legal proceedings (e.g., jury duty or subpoena).
Required participation in military obligations as certified by the student’s commanding officer.
Interviews for jobs, co-op assignments, internships, graduate school, or professional school. Students should make every effort to schedule appointments around their class obligations and will provide documentation beforehand to verify a class conflict.

In the event of a regional or national emergency (e.g., pandemic, hurricane, etc.), students missing classes may not be charged with unexcused absences if the nature and extent of the emergency is defined and disseminated by the Provost (or designee).

Appeals

Any student who feels that a grade has been affected by a legitimate absence that an instructor did not excuse may appeal the grade through the Academic Grievance process. Students may appeal, in writing, a course instructor’s decision not to excuse an absence to the academic Associate Dean of the academic unit offering the course. Before taking action, the Associate Dean should request that the course instructor explain his or her denial in writing.

Auditing Policies

Qualified students may audit courses upon written approval of the instructor. Auditors are under no obligation of regular attendance, preparation, recitation, or examination and receive no credit. Participation in classroom discussion and laboratory exercises by auditors is at the discretion of the instructor. A student who has previously audited a course is ineligible for credit by examination.

Undergraduate and graduate students enrolled in 12 or more hours may audit courses at no additional charge. Others interested in auditing should verify their eligibility through the Registrar’s Office.

Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Plan

Students may reduce the time necessary to earn both degrees by applying graduate credits to both undergraduate and graduate program requirements. To be eligible, the student must have completed the bachelor’s curriculum through the junior year (minimum 90 credits) and have a minimum overall grade-point average of 3.4. A maximum of 12 credit hours of graduate courses in the master’s program may be applied to the bachelor’s program. The combined bachelor’s/master’s degree (documented on GS6BS/MS) must have a minimum combined total of 150 credit hours. This total may contain a maximum of six credit hours of master’s thesis research and all credit hours taken after receiving the baccalaureate degree must be at the 6000 level or higher. As determined by the participating bachelor’s program, graduate courses may be applied to the bachelor’s degree as electives or technical requirements or by substitution of 7000- or 8000-level courses for required undergraduate courses. Under no circumstances may 6000-level counterparts of 4000-level courses required for the bachelor’s degree be counted toward master’s requirements. Combined bachelor’s/master’s plan students are not eligible for graduate appointments for financial aid until their bachelor’s degrees have been awarded. Students are not eligible to graduate with bachelor’s and master’s degrees in the same term.

Procedure for Students

Since neither all undergraduate nor graduate programs participate in this academic option, seniors should consult both their academic advisor and the graduate program coordinator of the master’s program they wish to pursue. Students must officially request participation in the combined bachelor’s/master’s program by completion of Form GS6BS/MS, “Request for Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Education Plan,” available online at www.grad.clemson.edu/forms/GeneralForms.php. Endorsements by the program coordinator or department chair of both programs are required.

Procedure for Departments

Departments and graduate programs desiring to participate in the combined bachelor’s/master’s program should submit a written notification to the dean of the Graduate School identifying the date on which they intend to make this option available to their students.

Senior Enrollment in Graduate Courses

Clemson University seniors meeting the accepted academic standard for graduate work (3.0 cumulative grade-point average) are eligible to request enrollment in graduate level courses. Enrollment of seniors in any graduate course is subject to approval by the department offering the course and the Graduate School. The total course workload for the semester must not exceed 18 hours, and the cumulative graduate credits earned by seniors shall not exceed 12 semester hours. The credits and quality points associated with senior enrollment in graduate courses will be part of the undergraduate record. Graduate courses that are not satisfying undergraduate requirements cannot be used to meet enrollment requirements for financial aid.

Application of Graduate Credits to Undergraduate Degree

At the discretion of the degree-granting program, a degree-seeking undergraduate student may apply graduate-level coursework-whether earned at Clemson University or elsewhere-towards an undergraduate degree. Students may not receive credit for both the 4000 and 6000 levels of the same course. Graduate courses taken at regionally accredited institutions other than Clemson University are eligible to be evaluated for transfer credit.

Seniors with a 3.4 or Higher GPA

Seniors with 3.4 or higher grade-point averages are eligible for participation in the combined bachelor’s/master’s plan (see Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Plan).

Seniors with a 3.0 or Higher GPA

Seniors with 3.0 or higher grade-point averages are eligible to request enrollment in graduate level courses to meet requirements for the bachelor’s degree; however, courses used for this purpose cannot be counted later towards an advanced degree. Alternatively, these students may also take courses in excess of the requirements for their undergraduate degrees and may request that these courses be included as a part of their graduate program if they are subsequently admitted to the Graduate School. Courses cannot be taken at the 6000 level if their 4000-level counterparts are required for the undergraduate degree in the same academic major as the proposed graduate degree.

Procedure for Students

Prior to registration, the Graduate School will approve and register the student in the graduate level courses requested on the GS6 or GS6 BS/MS. Senior enrollment forms, GS6, Request for Senior Enrollment, and GS6BS/MS, are available at www.grad.clemson.edu/forms/GeneralForms.php.

Graduation Requirements

A candidate for an undergraduate degree is a student who has submitted a completed diploma application by the deadline prescribed in the University calendar for a particular graduation date. Candidates who do not apply by the deadline will be subject to a late fee.

A student may specify up to two completed majors, two minors, and if applicable, two concentration/emphasis areas per degree when applying for graduation. Second (double) majors and additional fields of study (i.e., minors, emphasis areas or areas of concentration) will not be retroactively added to a student’s record once the degree is conferred.

The faculty of major programs may allow for courses to be double-counted as major and minor requirements. Regardless of whether a minor, concentration, or emphasis area is required, courses may not be used to fulfill a second minor, concentration, or emphasis area.

Even though a course may satisfy two requirements, the credits will only count once toward total hours.

Only candidates who have completed all graduation requirements are permitted to participate in the graduation ceremony.

Residence Requirement

To qualify for an undergraduate degree, a student must complete through instruction from Clemson a minimum of 37 of the last 43 credits presented for the degree. A waiver may be obtained for approved study abroad experiences through the Undergraduate Studies Office, 864-656-3022.

Make-up of Incompletes Received in Last Semester

The 30 day makeup period does not apply to candidates who receive an I in the semester of graduation. All final grades for candidates must be submitted by the deadline (including all makeup grades for Incompletes) in order for a candidate to graduate on the date of graduation for that semester.

Special Requirements

A cumulative grade-point average of 2.0 is required for graduation. Candidates for graduation must be officially accepted in the major in which they are applying for a degree no later than the date applications for diplomas are due.

Bachelor of Arts degree programs require completion of a minor and four semesters (through 2020) of a modern foreign language.

South Carolina REACH Act (SC. 38 as amended) Graduation Requirement

To comply with the South Carolina REACH Act, all undergraduate students who enter the university during summer 2021 or afterward must pass one course that has been approved as meeting the South Carolina REACH Act requirement. Successful completion of coursework in compliance with the REACH Act is required for graduation.

Transfer students are not required to meet the South Carolina REACH Act.
Note that the REACH Act requirement is met by a student completing AP, IB or dual enrollment coursework, not as a result of their receiving college credit based on their AP/IP test scores.
Students may request that a course taken at another institution be evaluated to determine if it satisfies the South Carolina REACH Act requirement.
Students who are exempt from the South Carolina REACH Act must select elective credits in order to complete the total required credits for their major.

A current list of Clemson courses that meet the requirement is below. Additional courses may be approved that satisfy this requirement. Students may select any course that meets the requirement, regardless of catalog year. This course may count as a requirement in any part of the program of study, including the major, minor, general education or as a free elective.

HIST 1010 - History of the United States to 1877 3 Credits (3 Contact Hours) 
POSC 1010 - American National Government 3 Credits (3 Contact Hours) 
POSC 1030 - Introduction to Political Theory 3 Credits (3 Contact Hours) 
Awarding of Degrees Posthumously

An undergraduate student may be awarded a degree posthumously on the recommendation of the faculty of the college concerned, subject to the following conditions:

The student had at least a 2.0 grade-point average at the date of last enrollment;
Including credits scheduled in the term of last enrollment, the student (a) had satisfied 75% of the degree requirements and (b) met the residence requirement for a degree, which requires that 37 of the last 43 credits presented for a degree be earned at Clemson University; and
The student’s death occurred within two years of the end of the term of last enrollment at Clemson University.
Credit Limitation

If all work toward a degree is not completed within six years after entrance, the student may be required to take additional courses.

Academic Honors
Honor Graduates

To be graduated with honors, a student must have a minimum cumulative grade-point average as follows: Cum Laude-3.70, Magna Cum Laude-3.85, Summa Cum Laude-3.95.

Honor Lists

At the end of the fall and spring semesters, the following lists shall be compiled of undergraduate students who have achieved grade-point averages of 3.50-4.00 on a minimum of 12 semester hours, exclusive of Pass/No Pass coursework.

    Dean’s List-3.50 to 3.99 grade-point average
    President’s List-4.00 grade-point average

Honors and Awards

The University offers a number of awards for outstanding achievement in specific fields and endeavors. Recipients are chosen by selection committees and are announced at the annual Honors and Awards Day program or other appropriate ceremonies. Detailed information relating to such awards is available in the offices of the academic deans and department chairs.

Pre-Professional Health Studies

Students interested in attending a health professional school (medical, dental, pharmacy, physical therapy, occupational therapy, physician’s assistant, etc.) should choose a specific major while accommodating the prerequisite coursework of their particular professional school of interest. Professional health schools typically avoid having long lists of required undergraduate courses in order to allow students a wide latitude for developing individualized programs of study. These schools are not as concerned about a student’s major as they are about academic performance in whichever curriculum the student selects. Performance becomes critical as competition increases for the limited number of places available in professional schools. Students choosing this route would apply to a professional school at the conclusion of their third year at Clemson. Interested students are encouraged to consult with Health Professions advising, as well as the individual schools to which they hope to apply in order to identify the appropriate coursework.

Preprofessional Studies

Clemson University will award the degree of Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science in Preprofessional Studies to a student who is pursuing a degree in a professional school. The student must have also satisfactorily completed three years of undergraduate work in an appropriate curriculum and the first year of work in an accredited medical, dental, veterinary, or other accredited professional school, provided the student fulfills the requirements for the three-year program as follows and the other specified conditions are met.

At least two of the three years of preprofessional work, including the third year, must be taken in residence at this University.
A minimum of three years of undergraduate work (i.e., preprofessional school credit) must be presented.
Normal progress must have been made toward fulfilling the degree requirement of the curriculum in which the student is enrolled at Clemson.
The student applying for the Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science in Preprofessional Studies must be recommended by the college at Clemson in which the curriculum that he/she is majoring as a Clemson student is located or by the college in which three years of normal progress toward a degree can be identified.
If the combination of preprofessional work taken and the work in the first year of professional school is equivalent to that which is required in some other bachelor’s degree program at Clemson, the college concerned may recommend the other bachelor’s degree.

The above requirements and conditions became effective July 1, 1974, and will apply to all students who satisfy these requirements and conditions after that date.

A Clemson student having left the University before receiving the bachelor’s degree (prior to July 1, 1974) and having enrolled immediately in an accredited professional postgraduate school may apply for a bachelor’s degree from Clemson and have his/her application considered on an individual basis. The college(s) at Clemson considering the application is authorized to examine the student’s entire record in both preprofessional and professional studies and exercise its own judgment concerning the three-year requirement for Preprofessional Studies.

Second Baccalaureate Degree

To complete a second baccalaureate degree, a student must complete a minimum of 30 semester hours at Clemson in addition to the greater number of hours required for either degree and satisfy all course and grade requirements for the second degree.

Double Major

A student in a Bachelor of Arts degree program may be awarded a single baccalaureate degree with a double major. The two majors may be within a single college or may involve two colleges, but are limited to Bachelor of Arts degree programs. In that a second major is comparable to extended instruction in a minor area, a minor is not required. Otherwise, all major requirements for both programs must be satisfied.

Graduate Degrees

Graduate degrees are available from all seven colleges in addition to several interdisciplinary programs. Clemson University offers more than 100 graduate degree programs. The degrees of Doctor of Philosophy, Education Specialist, Master of Arts, Master of Science, Master of Agricultural Education, Master of Architecture, Master of Arts in Teaching, Master of Business Administration, Master of City and Regional Planning, Master of Construction Science and Management, Master of Education, Master of Engineering, Master of Fine Arts, Master of Forest Resources, Master of Human Resource Development, Master of Landscape Architecture, Master of Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management, Master of Professional Accountancy, Master of Public Administration, and Master of Real Estate Development are awarded to students who complete prescribed graduate programs.

Additional information is available from the Graduate School.

Academic Records

The student’s permanent academic record is maintained in the Registrar’s Office and contains personal identifying information, grades, and credits. Where appropriate, statements of a corrective nature, withdrawals, suspension for failure to meet academic standards, suspension for disciplinary reasons, and graduation data are added. The academic record is a historical record of the student’s academic progress

Classification

All new students are classified as freshmen unless they have attended another college prior to entrance. Students who have completed college work elsewhere will be classified on the basis of semester hours accepted at Clemson rather than the amount of work presented. To be classified as a member of any class other than freshman, students must meet the credit-hour requirements below:

Sophomore-minimum 30 credit hours
Junior-minimum 60 credit hours
Senior-minimum 90 credit hours

Change of Academic Program
New Freshmen and Transfer Students

When new freshmen and transfer students enroll at Clemson, most are accepted into a particular academic program. Two notable exceptions are engineering students who must enroll in General Engineering their first year and business students who must enroll in Pre-Business their first year. See the “General Engineering and Pre-Business” section below for related comments on these two groups. In addition, approximately 200 students are accepted in an undeclared academic program status. The Admissions Office processes acceptable changes of academic programs for new freshmen and transfer students at the time of orientation. Once classes begin, new students can submit a Request to Change Academic Program in iROAR ⟩ Students ⟩ Student Records ⟩ Undergraduate Change of Program.

Enrolled Students

Enrolled students who wish to change their academic program and who meet the academic eligibility requirements must submit an Undergraduate Change of Program in the Student Records tab in iROAR. The request must be approved by both the current and new academic departments.

Students wishing to change majors should talk with an advisor in both departments. Students should gain the acceptance of the new academic program prior to disengaging from the current one. Many academic departments have established one or more conditions, such as a minimum grade-point average requirement, an application process, etc. that must be satisfied before approving a student Request to Change Academic Program. Any college or department that seeks an exception to this policy must have the approval of Academic Council.

Students are usually put into the curriculum year in force at the time of the academic program change.

NOTE: There are guidelines and restrictions by college for changing academic programs. Students should reference Change of Academic Program Guidelines by College.

Change to Concentration, Emphasis Area, or Minor

In order to add, drop, or make a change to a field of study (concentration, emphasis and/or minor)students must submit a Request to Change Academic Program in the Student Records tab in iROAR.

Change to Double Major or Second Degree

In order to add, drop, or change a second major or second degree program, students must submit a Request to Change Academic Program in the Student Records tab in iROAR.

General Engineering and Pre-Business

All engineering students must complete the freshmen General Engineering curriculum before being admitted into a specific engineering degree program (Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, etc.). All new business students must complete the freshmen Pre-Business curriculum before being admitted into a specific business degree program (Accounting, Economics, Management, etc.). Both freshmen curricula have minimum grade point average requirements that must be satisfied before students can advance to a specific degree-granting major. Advisors in both programs assist students in selecting a specific major and choosing a specific curriculum year.

Graduation

Candidates for graduation must be officially accepted in the major for which they are applying for a degree no later than the date applications for diplomas are due.

Withdrawing and Re-admittance

If students withdraw from the University or do not remain continuously enrolled (summer terms excluded), they are readmitted into the major they were in when they were last enrolled.

Change of Curriculum Year
New Students

When students initially enroll at Clemson, the curriculum requirements for the degree in their major are those outlined in the Undergraduate Catalog in effect at the time of their enrollment. The Undergraduate Catalog is published annually and is in effect for one academic year. Each academic year consists of 12 months, begins with the fall semester and goes through the following summer.

Returning Students

If a student withdraws from the University and subsequently returns or does not remain continuously enrolled (summers excluded), the student’s curriculum year is changed to the one in effect at the time of return for students with fewer than 90 credits. The curriculum year remains the same as when they were last enrolled for seniors (90 credits and more). The student´s major department can approve an exception. A Request to Change Academic Program should be submitted in the Student Records tab in iROAR requesting the approval.

Transfer Students

Transfer students are assigned the curriculum year based on the Undergraduate Catalog in effect at the time they enroll at Clemson. As an alternative, transfer students may select the curriculum that was outlined in the Clemson catalog at the time they entered the previous college(s), provided they have been in continuous enrollment since initially entering college. Further, transfer students may select any curriculum at Clemson subsequent to their initial college enrollment. New transfer students should meet with an advisor in their major department to determine which curriculum year is best for them. New transfer students wanting a curriculum year different from the one in effect when they transfer to Clemson should talk with their advisor and submit a Request to Change Academic Program in the Student Records tab in iROAR.

Enrolled Students

Enrolled students who wish to change curriculum year within their current major (or who have been pursuing a major curriculum in order to complete requirements to change their major) should first meet with their academic advisor to discuss the advantages, disadvantages, availability of required courses that must be taken, and earned courses that can be used in the new curriculum. Students must receive approval to change their curriculum year requirements and should submit a Request to Change Academic Program in the Student Records tab in iROAR.

Withdrawal from the University

A student may withdraw from the University subject to the restrictions in the section on W-Withdrew. Prior to the last day to withdraw from the University without final grades, students may withdraw via the iROAR registration portal. All military service or medical withdrawals must be processed by the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies. Students should call 864-656-3022.

Students receiving financial aid who withdraw from the University may have to repay significant portions of their financial aid. Students should report to G-01 Sikes Hall to determine the amount. For financial aid purposes, enrollment is defined and satisfactory academic progress levels are established as of midnight on the last day to drop without a W grade. Withdrawing from the University can negatively impact financial aid eligibility if a student has not completed a sufficient number of hours. Details are available at www.clemson.edu/finaid.

Academic Renewal

The student who has not enrolled at Clemson for a period of two or more academic years may apply to the Appeals Committee on Academic Eligibility for readmission under special conditions known as academic renewal, unless the student has been permanently dismissed. Under the academic renewal conditions, the previous credits attempted and grade-point deficit will not constitute a liability in a new grade-point computation; however, no credits passed or their attending grade points will be available to the student for a degree at Clemson, and any courses previously passed may not be validated by special examination. The previous record will appear on the permanent record as well as the notation of readmission under the policy of academic renewal. Academic Renewal can only be applied once. Students returning under the academic renewal policy who apply for financial aid should submit written notification of their status to the Office of Student Financial Aid in order to appeal their academic progress record. For federal financial aid purposes, academic performance in terms prior to academic renewal is still considered when evaluating satisfactory academic progress.

Transcripts

Official transcripts are issued only at the authorized, written request of the student. Transcripts should be requested online through Parchment, requested in person in 104 Sikes Hall, or requested by mailing a transcript request form to Transcripts, 104 Sikes Hall, Box 345125, Clemson, SC 29634-5125. Transcript Request forms may be downloaded at http://www.registrar.clemson.edu/html/transcript.htm. Payment in advance is required and may be made by check or money order. The following must be included with the transcript request: full name (including any names used while at Clemson), social security number, current address, date of birth, date the student last attended Clemson, where the transcript is to be sent, student signature, and payment of $12 per transcript. Telephone requests will not be honored. Transcript requests are normally processed within 48 hours, but additional processing time may be required at the end of a semester. Information is available on the Registrar’s website or from the Enrolled Student Services Office in 104 Sikes Hall or 864-656-2173. Official transcripts are not issued for those who are indebted to the University.

Undergraduate Academic Integrity

As members of the Clemson University community, we have inherited Thomas Green Clemson’s vision of this institution as a “high seminary of learning.” Fundamental to this vision is a mutual commitment to truthfulness, honor, and responsibility, without which we cannot earn the trust and respect of others. Furthermore, we recognize that academic dishonesty detracts from the value of a Clemson degree. Therefore, we shall not tolerate lying, cheating, or stealing in any form.

I. Academic Integrity Policy

Any breach of the principles outlined in the Academic Integrity Statement is considered an act of academic dishonesty.

Academic dishonesty is further defined as:

Giving, receiving, or using unauthorized aid, including the inappropriate use of electronic devices, on any work submitted to fulfill academic requirements. In examination situations all electronic devices must be off and stowed unless otherwise authorized by the instructor;
Plagiarism, which includes the intentional or unintentional copying of language, structure, or ideas of another and attributing the work to one’s own efforts;
Attempts to copy, edit, or delete computer files that belong to another person or use of computer accounts that belong to another person without the permission of the file owner or account owner;
Failure to have an approved proctor during examinations. Instructors have final determination on personnel used for proctoring of examinations. Students in online courses may suggest potential proctors, however the instructor will decide on the location and personnel involved.
All academic work submitted for grading or to fulfill academic requirements contains an implicit pledge and may contain, at the request of an instructor, an explicit pledge by the student that no unauthorized aid has been received.
It is the responsibility of every member of the Clemson University community to enforce the Academic Integrity Policy.
II. Academic Integrity Committee

The power to hear cases of academic dishonesty is vested in an Academic Integrity Committee.

Structure-The Academic Integrity Committee is composed as follows:
Two tenured faculty members from each college and the Library, elected by their respective collegiate faculties. Faculty members will be elected on a staggered term basis, serving for a period of two years after initiation of staggered terms. Terms commence with fall semester late registration.
Two undergraduate students from each college. Student members are nominated by the Student Senate President, through an application and interview process in the spring semester, approved by the Student Senate, and appointed by the Dean of Undergraduate Studies for terms of two years. Students must have a 3.0 grade-point average at the time of appointment and must have completed 30 hours by the end of the spring semester. Nominations will be made in the spring semester with terms of service commencing with fall semester late registration.
Hearing boards convene on an as-needed basis, including summer session.
Hearing boards are composed of two faculty members, two students, and one chairperson. Quorum, for a hearing board, is one student, one faculty member, and a chairperson. Decisions by the hearing board will be by majority vote.
Chairpersons will be selected based on length of service on the Academic Integrity Committee (at least one year). The chairperson manages the hearing proceedings but has a single vote toward the outcome.
Before hearing any cases, a new member of the committee must undergo a training session(s) with the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies (or designee).
The Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies (or designee) is the administrative coordinator of the Academic Integrity Committee.
Procedures
When, in the opinion of a course instructor, there is evidence that a student has committed an act of academic dishonesty, that person must make a formal written charge of academic dishonesty, including a description of the misconduct, to the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies. The reporting person may, at his/her discretion, inform each involved student privately of the nature of the alleged charge. In cases of plagiarism (I.B.2.) instructors may use, as an option, the Plagiarism Resolution Form available from the Office of Undergraduate Studies.
When, in the opinion of a student, there is evidence that another student has committed an act of academic dishonesty, he/she should contact the instructor for the course to discuss the incident. After being contacted, if, in the opinion of the instructor, there is evidence that a student has committed an act of academic dishonesty, the instructor must make a formal written charge of academic dishonesty, including a description of the misconduct, to the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies. The instructor may, at his/her discretion, inform each student involved privately of the nature of the alleged charge.
If, for any reason, the person who first discovered an integrity violation is not available to present a charge, the department chair (or designee) or college Associate Dean for the department in which the course is taught may submit the charge to the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies.
When the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies has received a formal charge of an alleged violation, he/she will contact the student involved privately to notify him/her of the charge and will provide the student with a copy of the charge and a copy of the procedures that the Academic Integrity Committee has adopted, pursuant to number 8 below. If a student is charged with academic dishonesty, he/she may not withdraw from the course unless he/she is exonerated of the charge. If a student is found in violation of the academic integrity policy and receives a forgivable grade, he/she will not be allowed to have that grade forgiven under the Academic Forgiveness Policy. If the student fails to respond to the Associate Dean’s requests for a meeting within ten university working days, the student is considered to have waived his/her right to a hearing, thus admitting to being in violation of the Academic Integrity Policy.
After informing the student involved, the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies will convene one of the boards of the Academic Integrity Committee within 20 university working days (exclusive of University holidays) from the date that the accused student provides a written rebuttal to the charge. The student will provide the rebuttal no later than five university working days following notification of the charge from Undergraduate Studies. (Students charged in the spring term, but not enrolled in summer sessions, may be given a continuance to the next fall term. Should the University schedule be interrupted due to emergency circumstances, academic integrity cases will be resolved as soon as possible once classes resume.) All students will be presumed not in violation of a charge until found in violation by a hearing board. Each party is responsible for having present at the hearing all witnesses that he/she wishes to speak on his/her behalf. Witnesses must have first-hand knowledge of the events under discussion.
Hearing board members will use the standard of preponderance of evidence to determine if the student is in violation of the policy.
A charge of academic dishonesty in a course must be made within thirty days after the beginning of the next term, exclusive of summer vacation. For cases that are not resolved before course grades are due, instructors will assign an Incomplete as a placeholder for the grade. This Incomplete grade will be replaced with the course grade once the case is resolved.
The Academic Integrity Committee will adopt its procedures, to be followed by all hearing boards, prior to the first case heard by a hearing board. In addition to providing the student with a copy of the procedures, as stated in number 4 above, the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies will provide a copy of the procedures to the involved course instructor and also the hearing board members. The Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies will also retain copies of these procedures. The procedures must afford both instructors and students the opportunity to present their cases and the opportunity for rebuttal.
In cases in which there is a finding of “in violation,” the course instructor may consult with the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies to consider any past precedent established regarding academic penalties levied in similar cases. Instructors must inform the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies of the academic penalty for a student found “in violation” by a hearing board.
The Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies is responsible for notifying the registrar and all other appropriate University personnel of the finding of “in violation” and the academic penalty. The Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies retains all records of academic dishonesty cases and their findings in accordance with the University’s Records Retention Policy.
Penalties

Upon a finding of “not in violation” by a hearing board, the student’s record will not reflect the incident.

Upon a finding of “in violation” by a hearing board, the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies will notify the student and course instructor of the decision immediately. If the offense is the first for the student, then the instructor has the ability to determine the academic penalty, which shall not exceed a grade of F for the course.

If the finding of “in violation” is not the student’s first offense, the student will receive a grade of F in the instance of coursework, and, in all cases, will be suspended from the University for one or more full semesters, and may be permanently dismissed from the University. The hearing board will determine the period for which the student will be suspended or, if applicable, permanently dismissed. If the accused student waives his/her right to a hearing and the incident is not a first offense, the student will receive a grade of F in the case of coursework and, in all cases, will be suspended from the University for one or more full semesters or will be permanently dismissed, at the discretion of the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies.

An undergraduate student who has been suspended from the University for a violation of the Academic Integrity Policy becomes immediately ineligible for University merit or need-based scholarship or grant aid for the remainder of the student’s undergraduate program at Clemson. (See complete policy in Financial Aid section.)
Appeals
If the student believes that the procedures as outlined in Section B above were not followed, the student may request a review by the Provost’s Office. The request must be in writing, address a specific policy violation, and be delivered within five university working days of the hearing. The Provost (or designee) can initiate a rehearing of the case or take appropriate action, should he or she find that a major error in procedure affecting the outcome of the hearing did occur.
Students do not have the option to appeal a decision rendered by the hearing board, whether it is the first, second, or any subsequent offense. Students do not have the option to appeal the penalty determined by the course instructor for first offenses or to appeal the grade of F for the course given for second offenses.
For offenses resulting in suspension of two or more semesters or permanent dismissal, students have the option to present written information to the Dean of Undergraduate Studies to appeal the length of the suspension or to appeal a decision of permanent dismissal. Students must present information in their defense, as allowed in this paragraph, to the Dean within five university working days after receipt of written notification of the suspension or dismissal. However, as stated in number 1 above, students cannot appeal a decision rendered by the hearing board.
Academic Grievance Policy
I. Purpose

Clemson University is dedicated to the fair and impartial review of grievances by students against faculty and staff. The Academic Grievance Board is responsible for reviewing and adjudicating allegations by undergraduate students of unfairness or inequity in the assigning of final grades. Only grievances that contest a final grade are considered by the Academic Grievance Board.

II. Structure

The Academic Grievance Board comprises three separate entities: an Academic Grievance Panel, an Academic Grievance Committee, and an Academic Grievance Expedited Committee.

The Academic Grievance Panel is responsible for the initial review of grievances and for determining which grievances will go forward to the Academic Grievance Committee (see section IV.4 below). There are faculty representatives to the Academic Grievance Panel from each college. The faculty members of the Academic Grievance Panel are appointed by the Dean of Undergraduate Studies for three-year terms. In addition, there are two undergraduate student representatives to the panel appointed for two-year terms. Undergraduate student representatives are selected on a rotating basis from each of the colleges. The student representatives are appointed to the Academic Grievance Panel by the President of the Student Senate. The Academic Grievance Panel will elect a chair each year, chosen from among the faculty members on the Academic Grievance Panel.

The Academic Grievance Committee is responsible for hearing student grievances, proposing resolutions to grievances, and, in the case of appeals, forwarding recommendations to the Dean of Undergraduate Studies. Grievances are heard by three-person subcommittees, appointed by the Chair of the Academic Grievance Committee. The Academic Grievance Committee may hear a grievance only if a recommendation for a hearing is made by the Academic Grievance Panel. The Academic Grievance Committee consists of faculty representatives, three from each college, and student representatives, two from each college. Faculty representatives are elected by their colleges and serve three-year terms. Student representatives are appointed by the President of the Student Senate and serve two-year terms. The Chair of the Academic Grievance Committee is appointed by the Dean of Undergraduate Studies.

Before hearing any cases, a new member of the Academic Grievance Board must undergo a training session(s) with the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies.

The Academic Grievance Expedited Committee is responsible for hearing certain grievances for students that are to be graduating in the same semester the contested grade is presented to the committee (see section V). The Academic Grievance Expedited Committee comprises the Dean of Undergraduate Studies, and two available members (one faculty, one student) of the Academic Grievance Committee. The Academic Grievance Expedited Committee will only follow the procedure established under “Supplementary Procedure for Graduating Seniors” (see section V below).

III. Grounds for Academic Grievances

The Academic Grievance Board provides for hearings on academic grievances that are based on either or both of the following claims:

The method used for arriving at a student’s final grade was in clear violation of the method described in the instructor’s course syllabus.
The method used for arriving at a student’s final grade was in clear violation of departmental, college or university policy.

The Academic Grievance Board will not attempt to substitute its judgment for an instructor’s on such matters as a) quality of the instructor’s teaching, b) quality of the student’s work, or c) quality of course content.

The Academic Grievance Committee shall not hear any grievances including allegations of discrimination based on age, color, disability, gender, national origin, race, religion, sexual orientation, or veteran’s status even if the grievance falls within one of the categories noted above. All such discrimination complaints should be submitted to the Office of Access and Equity in 110 Holtzendorff, 656-3181. The Academic Grievance Committee shall refer any such discrimination complaints it receives to the Office of Access and Equity.

IV. Rules and Procedures for Academic Grievances
Any student filing a grievance must first attempt to resolve it by consulting with the involved faculty member. In the event that the student and faculty member cannot arrive at a resolution, the student shall consult with the department chair of the faculty member and the Dean of the college of the faculty member. The department chair and Dean shall make every effort to help the student and the faculty member arrive at a resolution to the problem. Until a formal complaint is filed, the student may consult with the Undergraduate Student Ombudsman.
If the grievance remains unresolved, the student may bring the grievance before the Academic Grievance Board. The student must first meet with the Associate Dean in the Office of Undergraduate Studies. The Associate Dean will describe the grievance process to the student. If the student wishes to proceed with the grievance, the student will provide a written statement detailing the grievance to the Associate Dean. The written statement must specify the specific syllabus, departmental, college or university policy that the student alleges to have been violated. In addition, the student will secure, from the Office of Undergraduate Studies, a grievance checklist form. On this form, identified by complaint number, the student will document the following: (a) the dates of those consultations described in procedure IV.1 above, (b) the names of those persons consulted, and (c) the signature of the collegiate Dean attesting that no resolution could be reached. The completed checklist form will then be returned to the Associate Dean for signature. Both the written statement and the completed checklist form must be delivered to the Office of Undergraduate Studies within the first 30 calendar days (exclusive of summer vacation) of the term following that in which the student alleges to have been aggrieved. The failure of a student to file a grievance within the 30-day period will cause him/her to forfeit his/her right to file a grievance under this procedure.
When all procedures described in item IV.2 have been completed, the Office of Undergraduate Studies will forward a copy of the grievance to the chair of the Academic Grievance Panel. The chair of the Academic Grievance Panel shall, upon receipt of the grievance, convene the Academic Grievance Panel to review the grievance. The Office of Undergraduate Studies shall retain the original documents.
The Academic Grievance Panel will review the grievance and ascertain whether the complaint meets the criteria for “Grounds for Academic Grievances” (III above). The Academic Grievance Panel will handle each case in a confidential manner.
Following the complaint review, the Academic Grievance Panel, within 14 days of receiving the complaint, will (a) make a written recommendation to the Associate Dean to dismiss the grievance, with the grievance identified by complaint number, or (b) make a written recommendation to the Academic Grievance Committee to hear the grievance and arrive at a recommendation. In the case that the Academic Grievance Panel recommends that the grievance be heard by the Academic Grievance Committee, a copy of the recommendation, identified by complaint number, will be forwarded to the Office of Undergraduate Studies.
If the Academic Grievance Panel recommends dismissal of the case, the Associate Dean will notify the student, the involved faculty member, the department chair of the involved faculty member, and the involved collegiate Dean.
If the Academic Grievance Panel recommends a hearing, the Chair of the Academic Grievance Committee shall, upon receipt of the recommendation from the Academic Grievance Panel and all relevant documents, appoint a three-person subcommittee to hold a hearing on the grievance. The subcommittee will be selected from among the members of the Academic Grievance Committee. The subcommittee will consist of a faculty member assigned to serve as the subcommittee chairperson, another faculty member, and a student representative to the subcommittee. If possible, the subcommittee shall include members who are not in the same college as the grievant or the faculty member against whom the grievance has been filed.
Prior to a hearing (see item 9 below) a representative of Undergraduate Studies will contact the student who has filed the grievance as well as the faculty member against whom the grievance has been filed. Undergraduate Studies will provide copies of the grievance to both parties, answer any procedural questions that the parties have, and also ask each party if they have anything to add to the written record prior to the hearing. If additional written materials are submitted prior to the hearing, copies will be distributed to all subcommittee members and to all parties to the grievance. The subcommittee will, to the extent possible, handle each case in a confidential manner.
Academic Grievance hearings shall convene at a standardized location and time, as defined by the Office of Undergraduate Studies. The hearing shall take place during the next available standard meeting time after the subcommittee has received the necessary materials.
The hearing of the grievance will be informal and shall be closed to the public. The Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies shall, as facilitator, take whatever action is necessary to ensure an equitable, orderly and expeditious hearing. All parties to the grievance shall be given an opportunity to be heard. In addition, the chairperson may request the presence of any other person who can supply information pertinent to the grievance. Witnesses shall not be present during the hearing proceedings except when they are called to speak before the committee. The parties shall be permitted to question all individuals who are heard by the committee. If any witness is unable to be present at the hearing, the chairperson may, at his/her discretion, accept a written statement from that witness to be presented at the hearing. The parties shall be accorded the right to assistance of counsel of their own choice; however, counsel shall not be permitted to participate actively in the proceedings.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the subcommittee shall reach, by majority vote, a posed solution to the grievance. The subcommittee chairperson shall then formulate the findings in writing. Copies of the written findings and recommended solution will be forwarded to both parties to the grievance for acceptance. Each party will be asked to indicate acceptance of the posed solution within 14 calendar days of its date. Failure to respond within 14 calendar days will constitute acceptance. In the event that both parties agree to a change in grade, the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies will also notify the Office of Records and Registration of the decision.
If, after the conclusion of the hearing on the grievance, acceptance of the posed solution cannot be secured, the grievance shall be referred to the Dean of Undergraduate Studies. When grievances are referred in this manner, the Dean of Undergraduate Studies, on behalf of the University, shall make the final decision on the solution to the grievance and will then notify the student, the involved faculty member, the department chair of the involved faculty member, the involved collegiate Dean, and the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies of the University’s final decision. In the event that the Dean of Undergraduate Studies decides in favor of a change in grade, the Dean of Undergraduate Studies will also notify the Office of Records and Registration of the University’s decision.
To the extent permitted by law, the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies shall keep in confidence all records pertinent to grievances.
The Academic Grievance Committee shall make every reasonable effort to resolve each grievance by the end of the semester that follows the semester in which the student received the grade that is being contested (summers not included).
These procedures can be changed by the Academic Council. Such changes shall not affect any case under consideration at the time of the change. Notification of any changes to the procedure shall be given to the Dean of Undergraduate Studies of the University via the Academic Council.
V. Supplementary Procedure for Graduating Seniors

The purpose of this supplementary procedure is to offer an expedited method for graduating students to file an academic grievance that would impact their ability to graduate, as determined by the Dean of Undergraduate Studies. To be eligible for the following procedure, the student must file an academic grievance with the Office of Undergraduate Studies no later than noon the day after final grades are posted. The following procedure shall be made available for Fall, Spring, and Summer graduations.

Any student filing an expedited grievance should first attempt to resolve it by consulting with the involved faculty member. Until a formal complaint is filed, the student may consult with the Undergraduate Student Ombudsman.
In the event that the student and faculty member cannot arrive at a resolution, the student may bring the grievance before the Academic Grievance Expedited Committee. The student must first meet with the Associate Dean in the Office of Undergraduate Studies. If the student wishes to proceed with the grievance, the student will provide a written statement and grievance checklist form (IV.2 above).
The student and involved faculty member shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing by 6:00 pm, two days prior to graduation. Hearings will begin at 2:00 pm, one day prior to graduation. In the case that the involved faculty member cannot attend the hearing, he or she may appoint an appropriate representative.
Hearings shall follow the same format as established in IV. 10.
Following the hearing, the Academic Grievance Expedited Committee shall vote on a proposed resolution. A majority vote constitutes as a passed resolution. This decision is final, and the student and involved faculty member will be notified of the resolution. In the event that the Academic Grievance Expedited Committee decides in favor of a change in grade, the Dean of Undergraduate Studies will also notify the office of Records and Registration of the university’s decision.
Academic Misconduct by Former Students

It is possible that an act of academic misconduct will remain undiscovered until after a degree is awarded. In such a case, Clemson University reserves the right to revoke any degree based on new revelations about scholarly issues including, but not restricted to, admissions credentials, all forms of coursework, and final projects.

I. Submission of Fraudulent Admissions Credentials

The submission of fraudulent admissions credentials in the student’s application or any other documents submitted for admission to Clemson University may result in initiation of action under the Policy and Procedure on Revocation of Academic Degrees.

II. Academic Dishonesty in Coursework
In the event that the act is alleged to have occurred within the context of a course and is consistent with the general definition of academic dishonesty presented in Sections I of the Academic Integrity Policy, the same procedures in that policy will apply except for academic misconduct listed in III below.
Undergraduate Students-If the resulting penalty causes the student to no longer have the necessary credit hours, coursework, or grade average for receiving a degree, action under the Policy and Procedures on Revocation of Academic Degrees may be initiated.
III. Falsification of Data and Plagiarism in Final Projects

Data falsification, plagiarism (as defined in the Academic Integrity Policy) and other acts of academic dishonesty in a final project are serious acts of misconduct. Allegations of this type of misconduct may result in initiation of action under the Policy and Procedure on Revocation of Academic Degrees.

Revocation of Academic Degrees
Preamble

Academic institutions have a critical responsibility to provide an environment that promotes integrity, while at the same time encouraging openness and creativity among scholars. Care must be taken to ensure that honest error and ambiguities of interpretation of scholarly activities are distinguishable from outright misconduct. This policy is applicable to fraudulent or other misconduct in obtaining an academic degree which is so egregious that a mechanism for revoking an academic degree must be undertaken. The Clemson University Board of Trustees has the sole authority to revoke any degree previously awarded.

Definitions

As used herein, the following terms shall apply:

“Dean” shall mean the Dean of the academic college where student was enrolled.
“Committee of Investigation and Recommendation” shall be composed of the members of the standing University Undergraduate Academic Eligibility Appeals Committee. An undergraduate student will be appointed to the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation by the President of the Student Body within ten (10) calendar days of notification by the President of the Faculty Senate. Any member of the Academic Eligibility Appeals Committee who is a faculty member in the department which awarded the degree involved shall not be a member of the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation for that particular investigation. If there are fewer than three (3) non-disqualified faculty members, the President of the Faculty Senate shall appoint additional faculty members to bring the number of faculty committee members up to three (3). If the President of the Faculty Senate is from the same department that awarded the degree involved, the President-Elect of the Faculty Senate shall appoint the additional member.
Complaint

An allegation or complaint involving the possibility of misconduct can be raised by anyone. The allegation should be made in writing to the Dean.

Initial Review

The Dean will conduct the initial review to determine whether or not the allegation has merit. The Dean may discuss the matter with the former student’s advisory committee (if any) and other faculty as appropriate. The Dean may also contact persons outside the University who may be able to provide factual information on the alleged misconduct or who may otherwise have expertise concerning issues involved in the alleged misconduct. If the Dean determines that the allegation has no merit, he/she will terminate the investigation. If the Dean determines that serious academic misconduct is suspected, the Dean will notify the President of the Faculty Senate in writing in a confidential manner. The Dean shall also notify the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost of the charge but will not discuss any details of the charge.

Committee of Inquiry

The President of the Faculty Senate shall, within (10) calendar days of receipt of the notification from the Dean, appoint three (3) faculty members to the Committee of Inquiry and notify the President of the Student Body, who shall appoint an undergraduate student to the Committee of Inquiry within ten (10) calendar days of notification. The President of the Faculty Senate shall also notify the degree holder of the formation of a Committee of Inquiry.

If the Faculty Senate President is from the same department that awarded the degree involved, the President-Elect of the Faculty Senate shall appoint the Committee of Inquiry. The faculty members will be appointed from departments which did not award the degree involved. The Committee will elect its chairman from the faculty members on the Committee.

For each allegation, the Committee of Inquiry will review the complaint and any other information provided by the Dean and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to warrant a formal charge of academic misconduct and further investigation under this policy. While the Committee of Inquiry shall not make a recommendation as to whether a degree should be revoked, the purpose is to provide a review to separate frivolous, unjustified or mistaken allegations from those requiring a more detailed and formal investigation. The Committee of Inquiry will review the evidence and must determine that the alleged misconduct more probably than not occurred in order for the committee to recommend a formal charge and further investigation.

Within thirty (30) calendar days of the formation of the Committee of Inquiry, the Committee of Inquiry will submit a written report to the President of the Faculty Senate. If the Committee of Inquiry’s report finds that the investigation should not proceed, the President of the Faculty Senate shall terminate the investigation and notify the appropriate persons. If the Committee of Inquiry’s report finds that a formal charge and further investigation are warranted, the President of the Faculty Senate shall, within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the report of the Committee of Inquiry, send a copy of that report to the Dean and to the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation. The President of the Faculty Senate shall also immediately notify the President of the Student Body that a student representative needs to be appointed to the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation. The President of the Faculty Senate shall also notify the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost of the Committee of Inquiry’s recommendation. No details of the charge will be discussed. Note: A majority vote of the Committee of Inquiry is necessary to recommend that a formal charge and further investigation are warranted. A tie vote means that the investigation is terminated as stated herein.

Notification to Degree Holder

The Dean shall issue in writing, within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the report of the Committee of Inquiry, a formal charge of academic misconduct to the degree holder. This written notice shall detail the factual allegations for the charge and the evidence supporting the charge. This written notice shall also inform the degree holder that if the charges are substantiated, the degree holder’s degree could be revoked. This written notice shall also inform the degree holder of his/her right to appear at a hearing as stated in this policy. The Dean shall also send with this notice a copy of this Policy and Procedure on Revocation of Academic Degrees to the degree holder. This notice shall be delivered to the accused in person or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested.

Committee of Investigation and Recommendation

The Committee of Investigation and Recommendation shall extend to the degree holder the following process:

Notice of the nature of the complaint
Notice of the evidence supporting the complaint
Notice of the hearing
The opportunity to present evidence, including testimony
The opportunity to hear the testimony against the degree holder
The opportunity to ask questions of all witnesses
The opportunity to have an attorney or advisor present at the hearing; however, the role of the attorney or advisor shall be solely to assist the party, and the attorney or advisor shall not be permitted to participate actively in the proceedings.

The degree holder shall not be entitled to know the identity of the person(s) who originally made the complaint unless that person agrees that his/her identity can be revealed.

The chair of the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation shall inform the degree holder of the time and date of the hearing.

The Dean or his/her designee shall present the accusation against the degree holder at the hearing and may have one additional representative present during the hearing. Under this section the term “Dean” is understood to include the Dean’s designee, if such a designation is made.

The degree holder and the Dean may submit written materials to the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation prior to the hearing. The chair of the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation shall make available the materials received to the other party and to all committee members.

The hearing before the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation shall be held no sooner than thirty (30) calendar days and no later than ninety (90) calendar days after receipt of the report of the Committee of Inquiry unless the degree holder and the Dean agree to a different date. All matters pertaining to the hearing shall be kept as confidential as possible and the hearing shall be closed to the public. A verbatim record of the hearing will be made and shall be made a part of the hearing record. The degree holder and the Dean shall be responsible for having any witnesses they wish to testify in attendance at the hearing. Witnesses will be present only while testifying.

The chair of the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation shall take whatever action is necessary during the hearing to ensure a fair, orderly, and expeditious hearing. No formal rules of evidence will be followed. If any objection is made to any evidence being offered, the decision of the majority of the committee shall govern. Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.

The degree holder and the Dean shall be permitted to offer evidence and witnesses pertinent to the issues.

The Dean shall present the case against the accused first. The accused shall then present his/her response.

The chair will allow each party to ask questions of the other party and will allow each party to ask questions of the other party’s witnesses at the appropriate time during the hearing as determined by the chair. Members of the committee may ask questions of any party or any witness at any time during the hearing.

Within fifteen (15) calendar days of the conclusion of the hearing, the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation shall submit a written report to the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost. The report shall contain findings and a recommendation as to whether the degree holder’s degree should be revoked. The Committee of Investigation and Recommendation must find clear and convincing evidence that serious academic misconduct has been committed in order to recommend the revocation of the degree holder’s degree. If the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation does not find clear and convincing evidence of serious academic misconduct, the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation cannot recommend revocation of the degree holder’s degree and the matter shall be closed. Note: A majority vote of the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation is necessary to recommend the revocation of a degree holder’s degree. This means that a tie vote will result in the matter being closed.

At the same time that the report is sent to the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost, the chair of the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation shall send a copy of the report to the degree holder, the Dean, and other appropriate persons involved in the process.

If the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation recommends that the degree holder’s degree be revoked, the chair shall also send a complete copy of the hearing record to the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost. The hearing record shall consist of the transcript of the hearing and all documents that were submitted to the committee. The chair of the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation shall label which documents were submitted by each party when forwarding this information to the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost.

If the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation recommends that the degree holder’s degree be revoked, the chair shall also send a copy of the transcript of the hearing to the degree holder and the Dean at the same time that it is sent to the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost.

Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost

If the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation recommends that the degree be revoked, the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost shall review the hearing record and the report of the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation. If the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost decides that the degree holder’s degree should not be revoked, he/she shall notify the degree holder, the Dean, the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation and other appropriate persons involved in the process, in writing, within twenty-one (21) calendar days of receipt of the transcript of the hearing, and the matter shall be closed. If the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost decides to recommend that the degree holder’s degree should be revoked, the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost shall send that recommendation in writing to the President of the University within twenty-one (21) calendar days of receipt of the transcript of the hearing. The Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost shall send to the President, along with his/her recommendation, the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation’s report and the hearing record. The Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost shall send a copy of his/her recommendation to the degree holder, the Dean, the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation, and other appropriate persons involved in the process.

If the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost is disqualified from reviewing the case, the Dean of Undergraduate Studies shall be substituted for the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost.

President

If the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost recommends to the President that the degree holder’s degree should be revoked, the President shall transmit that recommendation along with the report of the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation and the hearing record to the Executive Secretary of the Board of Trustees within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt. If the President wishes to make a recommendation, he/she shall review the recommendation of the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost, the report of the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation, and the hearing record and forward his recommendation to the Executive Secretary of the Board of Trustees within thirty (30) calendar days of receiving the recommendation of the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost.

Board of Trustees

The Executive Secretary of the Board of Trustees shall send to all trustees the hearing record, the recommendation of the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost, the report of the Committee of Investigation and Recommendation, and the recommendation of the President, if any. A majority vote by the Board of Trustees, at a duly constituted Board meeting, is required to revoke an academic degree. The decision of the Board of Trustees shall be final.

Guiding Principles

All actions taken by committees shall be effective by a majority vote.

All investigations, hearings, and actions shall be kept as confidential as possible except for notice of any revocation approved by the Board of Trustees.

A decision not to proceed at any stage of the proceedings set forth in this policy does not necessarily mean that the original complaint was groundless.

For good cause shown, at the request of either party and the approval of the other, the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost shall extend any time limit set forth in this policy. Any such time extension shall be communicated in writing to all appropriate parties.

Administrative Action if Degree is Revoked

If a degree is revoked by the Board of Trustees, the former student’s transcript will be modified to reflect that the degree was revoked, and the former student will be informed of the revocation and requested to return the diploma.

Students whose degrees have been revoked may be eligible to reapply for admission according to normal University procedures and policies in effect at the time of reapplication.

Add to My Favorites (opens a new window)
Print (opens a new window)
Help (opens a new window)